Add ERC: Zero-Knowledge Compliance Oracle (#1747)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-8262.md

---
eip: 8338
title: Zero-Knowledge Compliance Oracle
description: On-chain ZK compliance verification without revealing transaction data
author: DROO (@DROOdotFOO), Bloo (@bloo-berries), Merkle Bonsai (@Jabher)

> discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-zero-knowledge-compliance-oracle/28543

Reviewer: ```suggestion
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-8262-zero-knowledge-compliance-oracle/28543
```
Updated Eth Magicians title with assigned number

Author: thank you sir, file name updated. Also updated the discussion thread content.

status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2026-04-07
requires: 165
---

## Abstract

> A standard interface for on-chain verification of regulatory compliance (AML, sanctions screening, anti-structuring) using zero-knowledge proofs. Users generate proofs client-side that attest to compliance with jurisdiction-specific thresholds without revealing transaction amounts, counterparty identities, or screening details. Verifiers confirm proof validity on-chain. No trusted third party or TEE is required.

Reviewer 2: Some of these abbreviations are borderline. You might consider expanding them the first time they are used.

Author: Good idea, I was trying to avoid verbosity.
Changed: `AML` -> `anti-money laundering`; introduced `(TEE)` parenthetical so later uses are unambiguous.

## Motivation

> Public blockchains force a binary choice between transparency and privacy. Transparent execution (Uniswap, CoW Protocol) exposes trades to billions in cumulative MEV extraction. Privacy tools (Tornado Cash) have been sanctioned for lacking compliance mechanisms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Public blockchains force a binary choice between transparency and privacy. Transparent execution exposes trades to billions in cumulative MEV extraction. Privacy tools have been sanctioned for lacking compliance mechanisms.
```

It's best to avoid mentioning specific products.

Author: Applied your suggestion! TY

Existing approaches to compliant privacy fall short:

- **View keys** (Railgun, Panther): Trade privately, then reveal raw transaction data to auditors on request. This leaks the data: it is delayed transparency.

> - **TEE-based compliance** (various): Rely on hardware trust assumptions that have been broken repeatedly (SGX side channels, key extraction).

Reviewer 2: Same comment about SGX being uncommon.

Author: "SGX side channels, key extraction" -> "side-channel attacks and key extraction"

This ERC defines a standard where compliance is proven cryptographically at transaction time. The proof commits to screening results, jurisdiction thresholds, and provider attestations. Regulators verify a proof. They never see the underlying data.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

### Terminology

- **providerSetHash**: A commitment to the specific set of screening providers and their weights used for a particular compliance proof. Included in each attestation for retroactive verification.
- **providerConfigHash**: A hash of the global provider weight configuration published by the oracle administrator. Versioned on-chain; weight changes push a new entry to the config history.
- **attestation TTL**: The duration (in seconds) for which a compliance attestation remains valid after on-chain recording. Expired attestations remain queryable via `getHistoricalProof()` but are not considered valid by `checkCompliance()`.

### Proof Types

> 

Reviewer 2: I'm about as far from an expert on ZK stuff as one can get, so it's possible this is all obvious to someone with more domain knowledge.

I just want to make sure that this section has concrete/implementable requirements and isn't just a list of programs. You have to make sure that anyone reading this standard is able to write a compatible implementation without looking at other implementations.

Author: Added new H3 **Per-Type Circuit Specifications** with 9 H4s (one per proof type), each lists public/private inputs with value ranges and a numbered constraint list.

Two supporting H3s define cross-cutting material: 
**Circuit Conventions** (slot counts, value ranges, encoding rules, domain-tag distinctness) and,
**Commitment Layouts** (the field-order layout for every Pedersen commitment, including the 22-field signed-variant digest and the 25-field multi-signed slot digest). 

End goal is that an implementer can write a compatible verifier without reading the reference Noir. Hope this aligns better!

Strict-mode jurisdictions (US BSA, Singapore) MUST reject the self-attested tier — the reference enforces this via `JurisdictionConfig.requireSignedSignals(uint8)`. Permissive jurisdictions MAY accept either tier. Integrators whose threat model includes a dishonest user but a trusted provider MUST require the signed variants. Integrators whose threat model includes a compromised provider key MUST additionally require an ATTESTATION proof against an independently-published credential tree, ideally with an in-circuit signature over the credential root (out of scope for this specification, tracked as future work).

> Implementations SHOULD prominently document this trust model in deployment-facing materials.

Reviewer 2: Keep requirements in the Specification section, or else they're easy to miss.

Author: Promoted to a new Spec H3 **Trust Tier Disclosure**; the Rationale paragraph now cross-references it instead of restating.

**MultiTrust Credential.** Companion draft ERCs propose non-transferable credential anchors with ZK presentation via fixed Groth16 ABI, supporting predicate proofs ("score >= threshold") without revealing raw data. The predicate-proving pattern parallels this ERC's RISK_SCORE proof type. MultiTrust focuses on credential issuance and presentation; this ERC focuses on compliance attestation and retroactive verification.

**[ERC-1922](./eip-1922.md).** The original zk-SNARK verifier standard (2019, stagnant). ERC-1922 defines a generic interface for on-chain ZK verification with dynamic arrays for cross-scheme compatibility. This ERC supersedes ERC-1922's approach with per-proof-type routing, UltraHonk support, and domain-specific input validation.

## Backwards Compatibility

This ERC introduces new interfaces and does not modify existing standards. It is designed to complement [ERC-5564](./eip-5564.md) (stealth addresses) and [ERC-6538](./eip-6538.md) (stealth meta-address registry) for privacy-preserving settlement, but does not depend on them.

## Test Cases

> The reference implementation includes binary proof fixtures in `test/fixtures/` for the six unsigned proof types. Static fixtures are not provided for the three signed variants (COMPLIANCE_SIGNED, RISK_SCORE_SIGNED, COMPLIANCE_MULTI_SIGNED) because each requires a fresh secp256k1 ECDSA witness; those are exercised end-to-end in the TypeScript SDK consumer tests instead. Each unsigned fixture contains:

Reviewer 2: Did you forget to include your fixtures?

Author: Relic from when I was drafting this from within the reference implementation repo. Good eye!
Fix:
`b1f67656` qualifies every `test/fixtures/`, `test/sdk/`, `scripts/...`, `src/...`, and `docs/...` reference to be unambiguously about the external reference implementation repo. 

Reference Implementation section now opens with `github.com/xochi-fi/ERC-8262` and a sentence stating all file paths in that section, Test Cases, and Security Considerations are relative to it. 

The Witness Annex (Test Cases) gives reproducible `Prover.toml` inputs for the six unsigned proof types so any implementation can rebuild byte-identical fixtures locally; binary blobs live at [xochi-fi/ERC-8262 `test/fixtures/`](https://github.com/xochi-fi/ERC-8262/tree/main/test/fixtures). 

Chose above over inlining ~50 KB of hex per fixture into the ERC body; the Prover.toml witnesses are the authoritative cross-validation surface, and the binary outputs are reproducible from them.

## Reference Implementation

A reference implementation accompanies this ERC. It consists of:

- **Solidity contracts**: `src/ERC8262Verifier.sol`, `src/ERC8262Oracle.sol`, `src/SettlementRegistry.sol`, `src/Timelock.sol` (Foundry, Solidity 0.8.28, Cancun EVM)
- **Noir circuits**: `circuits/` (one per proof type, pinned to nargo 1.0.0-beta.20 via `.tool-versions`)
- **Generated verifiers**: `src/generated/` (UltraHonk verifiers generated by Barretenberg, pinned to bb 4.0.0-nightly.20260120)
- **Test suite**: Solidity tests (unit, fuzz, invariant, integration with real proofs for the 6 unsigned proof types) and circuit tests across all 9 circuits. The signed variants (0x07, 0x08, 0x09) are exercised in the TypeScript SDK consumer tests (`test/sdk/`) which generate a fresh ECDSA witness per run.

> Thanks to Merkle Bonsai (@Jabher) for reviewing the generated UltraHonk verifiers and identifying that the `pairing()` free function could be rewritten in inline Yul to bring all nine per-proof-type verifiers under the [EIP-170](./eip-170.md) 24,576-byte runtime size limit. The reference implementation incorporates the rewrite in `scripts/patch-pairing-yul.sh`, saving ~186 bytes per verifier (and ~800 gas per `verifyProof` call as a bonus) while staying byte-identical to the `bb`-generated semantics on the pairing precompile (`address(0x08)`) input layout.

Reviewer 2: I'd move the attribution to a comment in the actual file. We tend to avoid acknowledgements within the body of the proposal itself.

Author: Moved the "Thanks to Merkle Bonsai" line into an `<!-- attribution -->` HTML comment.

> ## Security Considerations

Reviewer 2: A lot of requirements (defined with UPPERCASE keywords) in this section. Keep those in the specification section, but do discuss their implications in this section.

Author: Fully rewrote. 
Security Considerations is now **0 RFC-2119 keywords**; each paragraph names the threat, identifies affected proof types, links to the Spec subsection that mandates the mitigation, and discusses residual risk. 
MUSTs/SHOULDs migrated into 6 new Spec H3s (`Proof System Requirements`, `Batch Verification Limits`, `Proof Hash Computation`, `Circuit Constraints`, `Pause Mechanism`, `Administrative Operations`) and 5 extensions to existing H3s. 

The L631-644 public-input-validation bullet block (14 MUSTs) collapsed into a 3-sentence discussion + link to the Spec table, with one preserved gotcha (the "valid proof of non-compliance" case).

This ERC defines a standard where compliance is proven cryptographically at transaction time. The proof commits to screening results, jurisdiction thresholds, and provider attestations. Regulators verify a proof. They never see the underlying data.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

### Terminology

- **providerSetHash**: A commitment to the specific set of screening providers and their weights used for a particular compliance proof. Included in each attestation for retroactive verification.
- **providerConfigHash**: A hash of the global provider weight configuration published by the oracle administrator. Versioned on-chain; weight changes push a new entry to the config history.
- **attestation TTL**: The duration (in seconds) for which a compliance attestation remains valid after on-chain recording. Expired attestations remain queryable via `getHistoricalProof()` but are not considered valid by `checkCompliance()`.

### Proof System Requirements

> Implementations MUST use a ZK proof system that achieves at least 128-bit security against forgery. Groth16, PLONK, and UltraHonk all meet this bar. The [reference implementation](../assets/eip-8262/README.md) uses UltraHonk, with circuits written in Noir and per-circuit verifiers generated by Barretenberg; that README lists the pinned tool versions and licenses.

Reviewer 2: Not a required change, but you might consider linking to the Reference Implementation _section_ and then diving off from that into the actual code.

**Domain-tag distinctness.** The reference implementation uses eight distinct domain tags, prepended to the Pedersen hash input array: one each for internal Merkle nodes, set-bound leaves, value leaves, subject-bound leaves, credential hashes, signed payload, multi-signed slot payload, and signer pubkey commitment. Three other commitments (provider set, config, transaction set) are fixed-arity Pedersen hashes over a single context and do not carry a separate domain tag; the input layout itself is unique to each context. Implementations MAY choose different field values for the eight tags but MUST keep them pairwise distinct and distinct from any field value reachable as a circuit input.

**Jurisdiction threshold lookup.** Define `highThreshold(jurisdictionId)` to return the high-risk threshold (in basis points) from the table in Jurisdiction Configuration: `EU=7100`, `US=6600`, `UK=7100`, `SG=7600`, `UAE=7100`.

### Commitment Layouts

> All commitment hashes use the same Pedersen hash primitive over the proof system's scalar field. Each layout below lists field positions left-to-right; "`||`" denotes concatenation into the input array.

Reviewer 2: Is `||` used in this section?

```
proofHash = keccak256(abi.encodePacked(proof, proofType, block.chainid, address(this)))
```

Including `proofType` scopes uniqueness per proof type, so identical proof bytes submitted under different types are treated as distinct. Including `block.chainid` and `address(this)` prevents on-chain replay across forks or alternate Oracle deployments. This is the on-chain replay guard only; in-circuit chain binding is provided by the signed variants (see [Public Input Validation](#public-input-validation)).

### Jurisdiction Configuration

Implementations MUST publish jurisdiction thresholds openly. Risk scores are expressed in basis points (0-10000 = 0.00%-100.00%).

| ID  | Jurisdiction | Low (bps) | Medium (bps) | High / Filing trigger (bps) |
| --- | ------------ | --------- | ------------ | --------------------------- |
| 0   | EU (AMLD6)      | 0-3099    | 3100-7099    | >=7100                      |
| 1   | US (BSA)        | 0-2599    | 2600-6599    | >=6600                      |
| 2   | UK (MLR)        | 0-3099    | 3100-7099    | >=7100                      |
| 3   | Singapore (MAS) | 0-3599    | 3600-7599    | >=7600                      |

> | 4   | UAE (VARA)      | 0-3099    | 3100-7099    | >=7100                      |

Reviewer 2: I can imagine this table will need to be expanded from time to time. That is... difficult to do in the EIP/ERC process. You'd need to publish a new EIP every time you need to amend the table, and only the latest EIP would contain the most up-to-date list.

Not a blocking problem, just an annoyance of our process.

**MultiTrust Credential.** Companion draft ERCs propose non-transferable credential anchors with ZK presentation via fixed Groth16 ABI, supporting predicate proofs ("score >= threshold") without revealing raw data. The predicate-proving pattern parallels this ERC's RISK_SCORE proof type. MultiTrust focuses on credential issuance and presentation; this ERC focuses on compliance attestation and retroactive verification.

**[ERC-1922](./eip-1922.md).** The original zk-SNARK verifier standard (2019, stagnant). ERC-1922 defines a generic interface for on-chain ZK verification with dynamic arrays for cross-scheme compatibility. This ERC supersedes ERC-1922's approach with per-proof-type routing, UltraHonk support, and domain-specific input validation.

## Backwards Compatibility

This ERC introduces new interfaces and does not modify existing standards. It is designed to complement [ERC-5564](./eip-5564.md) (stealth addresses) and [ERC-6538](./eip-6538.md) (stealth meta-address registry) for privacy-preserving settlement, but does not depend on them.

## Test Cases

> Binary proof fixtures for the six unsigned proof types are published in the reference implementation (see Reference Implementation below) under `test/fixtures/`. Static fixtures are not provided for the three signed variants (COMPLIANCE_SIGNED, RISK_SCORE_SIGNED, COMPLIANCE_MULTI_SIGNED) because each requires a fresh secp256k1 ECDSA witness; those are exercised end-to-end in the TypeScript SDK consumer tests instead. Each unsigned fixture contains:

Reviewer 2: Similar comment about no directory listings 😅  You could make an index where you link to each test by hand, but it isn't required.

- **Router**: [`ERC8262Verifier.sol`](../assets/eip-8262/contracts/ERC8262Verifier.sol) -- per-proof-type verifier registry, append-only version history, timelocked upgrades, and batch verification (Foundry, Solidity 0.8.28, Cancun EVM).
- **Interfaces and libraries**: the [verifier interface](../assets/eip-8262/contracts/interfaces/IERC8262Verifier.sol), [oracle interface](../assets/eip-8262/contracts/interfaces/IERC8262Oracle.sol), [proof-type IDs and public-input validation](../assets/eip-8262/contracts/libraries/ProofTypes.sol), and [access-control roles](../assets/eip-8262/contracts/libraries/AccessControl.sol).
- **Circuit**: the COMPLIANCE (0x01) circuit [main.nr](../assets/eip-8262/circuits/compliance/src/main.nr), written in Noir and compiled to an UltraHonk verifier by Barretenberg. Pinned tool versions and licenses are listed in the [reference implementation README](../assets/eip-8262/README.md).

Each per-circuit UltraHonk verifier is a build artifact (~100 KB of Solidity per proof type), reproducible from the circuits; the generated verifiers are omitted here and registered into the router by address at deploy time.

> <!-- attribution: the `pairing()` Yul rewrite noted below was identified by Merkle Bonsai (@Jabher). -->
> 
> Raw `bb`-generated UltraHonk verifiers exceed the [EIP-170](./eip-170.md) 24,576-byte runtime size limit for some of the nine proof types. Rewriting the `pairing()` free function in inline Yul saves ~186 bytes per verifier (and ~800 gas per `verifyProof` call as a bonus) while staying byte-identical to the `bb`-generated semantics on the pairing precompile (`address(0x08)`) input layout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Raw `bb`-generated UltraHonk verifiers exceed the [EIP-170](./eip-170.md) 24,576-byte runtime size limit for some of the nine proof types. Rewriting the `pairing()` free function in inline Yul saves ~186 bytes per verifier (and ~800 gas per `verifyProof` call as a bonus) while staying byte-identical to the `bb`-generated semantics on the pairing precompile (`address(0x08)`) input layout (credit to Merkle Bonsai (@Jabher)).
```

I guess you could do something like this, but we normally don't do attributions in EIPs/ERCs except in the author field.

**Regulatory acceptance.** This standard provides a technical mechanism for ZK compliance. Whether specific jurisdictions accept ZK proofs as sufficient compliance evidence is a legal question, not a technical one. The VARA (Dubai) definition of "anonymity-enhanced crypto" excludes assets with "mitigating technologies" for traceability. This standard provides exactly that technology.

**Front-running the oracle.** Compliance proofs are generated before settlement. An adversary who observes a proof submission in the mempool can infer that a trade is about to occur, even though the trade details remain hidden. Integrators that want to minimize this information leakage can batch proof submissions or piggyback proof submission on the settlement transaction itself; this is a deployment-policy choice, not a normative requirement of the standard.

> **Administrative operations.** Verifier replacement, weight updates, registry mutations, TTL changes, and publisher rotations are the most consequential privileged operations. A single compromised admin key could pause the Oracle and rewrite its registries in one transaction. [Administrative Operations](#administrative-operations) mandates two-step ownership transfer and recommends splitting authority into guardian, registrar, and config roles behind a timelock. The reference implementation's per-role capability matrix and timelock-tier mapping is in `docs/THREAT_MODEL.md` in the reference implementation.

Reviewer 2: Can hyperlink to it.

**Config and root revocation.** Without revocation, a flawed configuration or a compromised merkle tree discovered after publication remains accepted forever. [Provider Weight Publication](#provider-weight-publication) and [Validation Registries](#validation-registries) define the revocation rules: the currently active provider configuration cannot be revoked (revocation must proceed by registering a replacement first); revocation status is permanent (a previously-revoked hash cannot be re-registered); and configuration history is bounded so storage cannot grow without bound.

**Verifier TOCTOU.** [Verifier Versioning](#verifier-versioning) requires verifier-address resolution to happen exactly once per submission, with the resolved address used for both verification and the recorded `verifierUsed` field. Without this, a verifier upgrade landing mid-transaction could record a different verifier than the one that actually validated the proof, breaking retroactive verification guarantees.

> **Batch verification limits.** Batched verification multiplies the per-proof cost (~2.4 M gas for UltraHonk) by the batch size. [Batch Verification Limits](#batch-verification-limits) requires an enforced cap sized for the target chain's block gas limit. The reference figures below show the linear cost growth on Cancun EVM with real proofs (see `test/GasBenchmark.t.sol` in the reference implementation); other proof systems and circuit revisions will differ.

Reviewer 2: Link

6. Inactive slot constraints (signature check, score floor check) are gated on `!active_i` and accept arbitrary witness.

Cross-slot:

7. `count(active_i for i in 0..5) >= threshold_m` (and `threshold_m in [1, MAX_PROVIDERS_MULTI]`).
8. All non-zero `signer_pubkey_hash_i` MUST be pairwise distinct (no signer fills two slots).
9. `meets_threshold == true` (encoded as field `1`). A valid proof cannot be produced with `meets_threshold = false`: the active-slot floor checks and signature checks in step 5 are hard asserts, so any failure prevents the proof from existing. The public field exists for layout parity with 0x07 and so the Oracle can route on it.
10. `timestamp` satisfies [Circuit Constraints](#circuit-constraints).

The Oracle also validates `threshold_m >= JurisdictionConfig.minMultiProviderThreshold(jurisdiction_id)`, each non-zero `signer_pubkey_hash_i` is registered, `chain_id == block.chainid`, and `oracle_address == address(this)` per [Public Input Validation](#public-input-validation).

### Verifier Interface

> The verifier routes proof verification to per-proof-type verification contracts. Each circuit produces a separate verifier via the ZK backend (e.g., `bb write_solidity_verifier` for Barretenberg's UltraHonk).

Reviewer 2: > Barretenberg's UltraHonk

This looks like an external link. If this is defined in a paper, you might be able to link to it using its DOI or include it as an asset depending on its license. See EIP-1 for allowed linking rules.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the explanation on external linking in EIPs. The Barretenberg optimized elliptic curve library for the bn128 curve and PLONK SNARK prover are developed and maintained by Aztec Labs under Apache 2.0 license. We will add and reference the relevant resources as auxiliary files in this ERC's assets.

Author: The proving stack is cited to the in-repo [reference implementation](../assets/eip-8262/README.md). README pins the Noir and Barretenberg versions and licenses.

**Merkle root registry.** Tracks valid merkle roots for MEMBERSHIP and NON_MEMBERSHIP proofs (typically managed sets such as sanctions lists or whitelists). Roots MUST be registered by the administrator before proofs referencing them can be accepted. Roots SHOULD be revocable when the underlying set is superseded or compromised.

**Credential root registry (per-provider).** Tracks valid credentials Merkle roots for ATTESTATION proofs, keyed by `provider_id`. Each provider has an authorized publisher EOA, set by the administrator via a separate registration step. The publisher SHOULD publish new credential roots periodically (replacing prior ones). Roots SHOULD have a finite TTL window during which they are accepted; this window allows users with paths against an outgoing root to continue submitting proofs while a new root propagates. Implementations MUST verify the proof's `provider_id` matches the registered `providerId` for the credential root being referenced; otherwise an attacker could reuse another provider's root with a forged `provider_id`.

> **Reporting threshold registry.** Tracks valid reporting thresholds for PATTERN (anti-structuring) proofs. Each jurisdiction defines its own reporting threshold (e.g., $10,000 for US BSA). Thresholds MUST be registered before proofs referencing them can be accepted.

Reviewer 2: > (e.g., $10,000 for US BSA)

Might be worth spelling this out more

Reviewer 3: Agreed the legibility can be improved by spelling this out as "US Bank Secrecy Act" or "United States Bank Secrecy Act".

Author: Confirmed done

The fixed-arity Pedersen hash used in the reference implementation does NOT achieve domain separation by input arity alone (e.g., `H([a, b, 0]) == H([a, b])` for the standard pedersen_hash without an explicit length tag). Implementations MUST therefore include an explicit domain tag in the input array.

### Non-Membership Proof Security

The non-membership circuit proves that the SUBMITTER is NOT in a sorted Merkle tree by demonstrating adjacency: there exist two consecutive leaves $l$ and $h$ in the tree such that $l < \text{submitter} < h$ AND $\text{high\_index} = \text{low\_index} + 1$.

The adjacency requirement is critical. Without it, an attacker could pick two non-adjacent tree entries that bracket the submitter, hiding any real intermediate entry that contains the submitter's address. Tree publishers MUST sort leaves by their raw value (the `value` argument to `leaf_hash_subject`). Implementations SHOULD insert sentinel boundary leaves at $0$ and $p-1$ (BN254 prime minus 1) so every submitter has well-defined neighbors.

> Comparison MUST be performed over the full Field range using bit-decomposition (Noir's `Field::lt`). Earlier designs that cast to `u64` and compared as fixed-width integers required additional range checks on all values; the reference implementation uses Field-level comparison to support arbitrary-width identifiers (Ethereum addresses, hashes, etc.) without truncation risk.

Reviewer 2: > Noir

Also external?

Reviewer 3: Practically the same situation as with Barretenberg, only that the Domain Specific Language for ZK proofs / SNARK proving systems that is Noir is maintained by the Aztec Foundation under a dual MIT/Apache 2.0 license. We again will add and reference the relevant resources as auxiliary files in this ERC's assets. Technically, the MIT license could be used but since Apache is more comprehensive and explicitly covers patents and legal protection, we feel it is more suitable for an ERC.

Author: Same treatment as above Barretenberg: Noir is cited to the reference implementation.

The strict-mode-jurisdiction policy and the integrator guidance above are mirrored normatively in the Specification (see [Public Input Validation](#public-input-validation) and [Trust Tier Disclosure](#trust-tier-disclosure)); this Rationale section explains the *why*. Adopters benefit from publishing which tier they accept per jurisdiction so integrators can match the deployment's trust posture against their own threat model without inspecting on-chain state.

### Related Work

Several existing and emerging standards address compliance, privacy, or on-chain ZK verification. This ERC differs from each in scope, architecture, or trust model.

**[ERC-3643](./eip-3643.md) (T-REX).** The ratified compliance token standard for regulated securities, with $32B+ in tokenized assets. ERC-3643 requires identity revelation via ONCHAINID claims verified by trusted issuers. This ERC proves compliance without revealing identity data, provider signals, or transaction amounts. The two standards are complementary: this ERC could serve as a ZK-enhanced identity provider within an ERC-3643 deployment.

> **Privacy Pools (0xbow).** Live on Ethereum mainnet since March 2025. Users prove their withdrawal originates from a "clean" deposit set using ZK proofs, with Association Set Providers (ASPs) maintaining approved deposit lists. The Privacy Pools protocol validates the "prove compliance without revealing data" model. However, set membership is a subset of what regulatory compliance requires. This ERC extends the approach to multi-dimensional compliance: risk scoring, anti-structuring detection, credential verification, and membership/non-membership proofs.

Reviewer 2: Would be best to avoid mentioning a product specifically, but if referring to them vaguely/describing their approach isn't clear enough, you can keep it.

Reviewer 3: For us, 0xbow's Privacy Pools protocol has been a great source of inspiration for this ERC so that, if possible, we would like to explicitly acknowledge their work.

Author: I feel they deserve attribution, but we have generalized other providers e.g. 'viewing keys' providers.

**RISC Zero token oracle.** A draft EIP proposes an oracle-permissioned [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) that validates token transfers via ZK proofs against off-chain payment instructions (ISO 20022 format), using RISC Zero as the proof system. That proposal gates a single token's transfers through a single oracle with a single proof type. This ERC provides standalone compliance attestations with nine proof types, usable by any contract, and is not gated to token operations.

> **VOSA-RWA.** A compliance-gated privacy token for real-world assets (Draft, 2026). Every token operation requires dual ZK proofs: a compliance attestation (Groth16/BN254, Poseidon hashing) and a transaction conservation proof. VOSA-RWA and this ERC share the "ZK proof for compliance, no PII on-chain" design, but VOSA-RWA embeds compliance into a specific token standard. This ERC is a standalone oracle whose attestations are reusable across protocols.

Reviewer 2: External?

Reviewer 3: This section pales in importance compared to the Privacy Pool protocol, so we will omit it.

Author: Confirmed removed.

timestamp      = "1700000000"
is_non_member  = true
submitter      = "0xdead"
# Adjacency check: low_leaf (0x100) < submitter (0xdead) < high_leaf (0x10000)
#                  AND high_index == low_index + 1.
```

Signed-variant witnesses (COMPLIANCE_SIGNED, RISK_SCORE_SIGNED) are identical to their unsigned siblings in the screening payload, plus `pubkey_x`, `pubkey_y`, `signature`, `signer_pubkey_hash`, `chain_id`, and `oracle_address`. The signature is computed off-chain by the provider over `H_pedersen(chain_id, oracle_address, provider_set_hash, signals, weights, timestamp, submitter)`. COMPLIANCE_MULTI_SIGNED (0x09) extends this to five parallel signer slots: each active slot supplies its own `(signals, weights, weight_sum, pubkey_x, pubkey_y, signature)` and a non-zero `signer_pubkey_hash`, where each signature commits to a slot-specific Pedersen digest under the `DOMAIN_MULTI_SIGNED_SIGNALS` tag (with embedded `slot_index`). Implementations producing fresh fixtures MUST sample fresh nonces — the reference implementation does this in `test/sdk/` (in the reference implementation repository) rather than committing a static witness.

## Reference Implementation

> A reference implementation accompanies [ERC-8262](./eip-8262.md) and is published in a companion GitHub repository at github.com/xochi-fi/ERC-8262. All file paths in this section, in the Test Cases section, and in the Security Considerations section are relative to that repository. It consists of:

Reviewer 2: You'll need to either remove this section or include a _minimal_ reference implementation in your assets directory, assuming a compatible license.

Reviewer 3: We will remove this section and instead will add the minimal relevant implementation to the assets.

Author: Confirmed removed, now reference implementation in `assets/erc-8262`.
